So we were dealing with objects where we're just going to take an object and it's going to fall, come
down to the ground and hit the ground or just a free falling object.
Now, what we're going to do is this.
We're going to take an object and toss it up in the air.
Like this, and this can go up, up, up, up, up in the air and then come down, down, down, down,
down, down, down.
And so this this is where we're actually giving the object an initial velocity.
So let's actually just say that we're tossing the ball up in the air.
And so describing this, how does the object move?
Does it go up and then get faster and faster and faster and faster as it's going up now?
Well, wait a minute.
That would actually describe like a rocket ship, right?
So when you toss a ball or an object of an air, what happens?
It goes up, up, up, up, up, up, up, pause.
And then down, down, down, down, down, down, down, down.
Right.
So it actually goes starts off really fast and then starts to slow down.
Slow down for a brief moment.
It pauses and then it starts to drop.
Dropped up, dropped faster, faster than bam.
It hits the ground.
Right.
So that's actually describe the object object's trajectory.
I know that you use this term before the object objects trajectory is what we're describing right here,
which is the path of the motion.
OK, so say if we actually have a now, I just want to also describe this hand.
What?
We're just throwing the ball straight up and it's coming straight down.
I can't really depict that in this illustration.
So that's the reason why I'm actually having it go up into the right and then down into the right.
It's not a exact and perfect depiction that I actually have right here, but it's kind of the best I
could work with considering the idea that I wouldn't be able to show this go straight up and straight
down as nicely.
So anyway, we just said before, we're going to be throwing the object up in the air, right?
So we have to give the object an initial velocity.
So let's just say that initial velocity is twenty nine point four meters per second and this is at time
of zero.
So let's just do this.
Let's say that we have our.
Velocity our time in seconds and let's right our direction.
OK, so at time of zero seconds, what's the initial velocity?
Oh, it's twenty nine point four meters per second.
And what's the direction?
Well, we're tossing it upwards.
Right.
OK, so we know that acceleration due to gravity.
Is negative nine point eight meters per second squared, and once again, what this means is for every
one second the objects velocity will change by negative nine point eight meters per second.
That's what acceleration is.
It's a change in velocity over a certain amount of time.
So if our initial velocity is twenty nine point four meters per second and zero seconds, then after
one second, what is our object's velocity?
So let's say here it's at one second, well, our object's velocity will be the twenty nine point four
minus the nine point eight meters per second, giving us nineteen point six meters per second.
So over here, we have nineteen point six meters per second.
OK, well, what about after two seconds or so object's velocity, while nineteen point six minus our
nine point eight gives us nine point eight meters per second.
So we have now nine point eight meters per second.
Notice that our object's velocity is starting to slow down a bit.
OK, and the direction is still upwards.
What about after three seconds?
Well, we're going to subtract nine point eight.
So we have our nine point eight minus nine point.
What does that get us?
Zero meters per second and does that make sense?
And what when you toss an object up in the air, it goes up, up, up, up, up, up, up.
And then what does it do for a brief moment?
It pauses and then it comes down, down, down, down, down, down, down.
Right.
Isn't that the way that the objects trajectory actually goes?
So all the way at the top over here, the objects velocity is zero meters per second and that should
make sense.
So what is the object direction?
I know it doesn't really have a direction.
I'm just going to I'm not going to draw a line.
So we're going to keep that blank.
OK, well, what about after four seconds?
We're just be negative nine point eight because we have zero.
Minus nine point eight, and that gets us negative nine point eight.
So we are over here and we have a negative nine point eight.
And what is our direction?
Our direction is now downwards.
So now our direction is downwards.
And once again, was this negative represent?
That's a downward direction.
Right.
And we're just going down a little bit.
What about after five seconds?
What is our object's velocity and what it's going to be nineteen point six negative, nine point eight
minus another nine point.
It is negative nineteen point six.
And what is its direction, it's also downward, so downwards of negative nineteen point six meters
per second.
And what about for the last one, six, hey, what do you need to do this calculation?
Are you starting to notice a pattern?
Maybe you're starting to notice a pattern here that we'll actually have nineteen point six months,
nine point eight gives us a negative twenty nine point four meters per second.
And we have our negative twenty nine point four meters per second and the direction is once again downwards.
Notice check this out.
Look at this symmetry over here.
We're launching this object up at twenty nine point four meters per second.
What is it doing?
It's going up to the peak where it actually just pauses for a brief moment and then it comes down and
it hits the ground at the same speed, just in the opposite direction.
So, yeah.
And what we actually do have a nice symmetry over here.
All right, so I know they just spent a lot of time going over how how the trajectory is very symmetric
based on the velocities, but what else is very symmetric?
Well, what about the time?
How many seconds does it take to go from the ground all the way up to the maximum height?
One, two, three seconds.
And how many how much time does it take to actually go all the way down to the ground?
Four, five, six.
Another three seconds, so, hey, know what it takes for the time for the object to rise all the way
up to the max height, three seconds and for the time for it to fall?
Back down to the ground.
Another three seconds for a total time of six seconds, right?